your speed to lead
why is it so important and how can it
cost you deals
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host of the top 100
marketing podcast
business growth show if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we
share actionable marketing tips useful
podcasts free guides bonus resources and
much much more every monday to start
your week off with a bang sign up over
at
businessgrowth.email harvard business
review study shows that if you respond
to leads in five minutes or less you're
a whopping 100 times more likely to
connect and convert that opportunity
this stat alone shows us that if you
take your sweet time to get in touch
with an inbound inquiry you're really
harming your chances of winning that
business you can have page one rankings
with seo you can have ads showing in all
the places all the channels that your
buyers hang out but
if your response times are slow your
competitors are going to be stealing
your customers it's as simple as that
just put yourself in the buying shoes
let's say you needed help with a new crm
perhaps you're wasting hours or your
sales team are wasting hours each and
every week manually inputting data from
enquiries from emails and all that good
stuff over from your email system into
your crm and you're searching for the
best crm to help your needs perhaps you
got in touch with two companies company
one responded within five minutes
excellent gave you a call understand
your problems your pain points and then
took the time to recommend an
appropriate solution and company two
didn't respond for a full day so by the
time company two had responded you'd
already had a great conversation with a
vendor that took the time to understand
your needs recommended a great solution
and you even went ahead with them so
companies that getting get leads in and
then waste time rooting it to the right
rep perhaps they don't get in touch the
next day are just missing out on
opportunities meaning the competition
gets one up on them just because they
give a fast service and think of it this
way right if they take so long to reply
to an inquiry what gonna they gonna be
like for customer service when you're
actually working on a project if this is
the start of the sales process and not
even bothered about winning your
business here's a few ideas to speed
your process up the first is to set each
inquiry or demo or consultation request
form on your website to go straight to
the sales rep that needs to handle the
inquiry so as soon as that inquiry comes
in it feeds through it notifies that
relevant sales rep so they can get on it
straight away
the second is you can use an automated
tool
so you could use something like chili
piper you actually sponsor the show so
instead of filling out inquiry form the
prospect can click your book a call or
book a demo or book a consult call to
action on your website and that goes
straight to a calendar they can choose a
date choose a time choose a slot that
works great for them and then as soon as
they pick that they put their name email
number relevant project info and that
feeds straight through to the sales rep
so it's locked in on both people's
calendars
the third point or third idea is that
you have team members on your team that
are actually able to pick up inquiries
outside of working hours so if a lead
comes in let's say outside of nine to
five perhaps six seven eight pm or early
in the morning you've got reps that have
got enquiries linked to their mobile so
they can pick them up give them a quick
response and make sure the inquiry knows
that they're going to be in touch to
discuss their project
next up is aiming to respond to any
inquiries that come in within five
minutes or less as we talked about that
stat at the very start of this episode
it's really proven that your response
time is crucial to getting that business
over the line and the last idea is to
add a thank you page so anytime someone
fills in a demo or inquiry form there's
a thank you page that says thanks very
much for getting in touch perhaps says
when you'll be in touch and the relevant
sales rep but also gives them the option
with a phone number so if they want to
call you straight away they can or
otherwise lets them know that you'll be
in touch within a certain timeline and
there you have it i hope these ideas are
going to put your marketing spend or
your hard-earned time driving those
people to your website and generating
those all-important inbound leads to
best use making sure you can win more
deals and get more revenue over the line
for your business as always if you found
today's episode of use a quick rating on
your podcast channel or subscribe on
youtube is very much appreciated and
with that i shall catch you on the next
one cheers